---
layout: post
title: "The Job"
date: 2013-09-11 13:40
comments: true
categories:
---

My research assistant position was with Professor Pascal Matsakis helping with his work on spatial relationships between 3D objects. Specifically my work entailed helping to finish off and test an implementation of his force histogram algorithm to work with 3D vector data, and prepare a conference paper discussing it. In order to do this I first had to get up to speed with the subject matter through reading related papers, and get up to speed with the technologies we were using in the implementation so that I could modify and build upon the existing work.

Gaining an understanding of the subject matter was a trying activity at first. Reading through paper after paper, stopping every paragraph to refresh yourself on some bit of math you haven't used in a few years can be a tiring process. Although it is quite rewarding in the longer term as things start to click and the concepts start to concrete themselves in your mind, in the short term there's very little feedback or feeling of accomplishment at the end of each paper/day. That said, once a thorough understanding of the material is obtained the work becomes a lot more fun, you can see where different ideas came from and even come up with some new ones of your own.

Getting an understanding of the technologies used on the other hand was a far easier process. As work on the readings had managed to refresh my geometry skills understanding the techniques used for working with the 3D vector data came reasonably quickly. Additional challenges were encountered in finding suitable software for generating experiment and test 3D vector data to be used with the algorithm due to the open source free data format chosen, and of course once found the learning curve on 3D modelling software is not exactly gentle. However once these were overcome being able to see and play with visuals of the experiments and results was very rewarding and provided lots of motivation and feedback.

Once I was up to speed my next work was in creating a rough draft of the conference paper. This work was challenging for me as the last academic sourced paper I had written was for a first year geography class and the writing level expected here was clearly higher. Things I found particularly difficult were finding additional sources to help fill out the miniature lit review in the introduction, and restating the background of the algorithm in my own words in a small space when it had been done a number of ways previously. Overall writing the paper itself was my least favorite part of the research position work.

Towards the end of the position the remaining work involved investigating new paths for optimization, preparing more interesting experiments, and creating more appealing visuals. This was my favorite part of the position, the room for creativity was abundant, and playing with different approaches was a lot of fun.